This is undesired, 'background' is supposed to tell Vim what the background
color is, not reset it.

Completion menu: For a wrapping line, completing a long file name, only the
start of the path is shown in the menu.  Should move the menu to the right to
show more text of the completions.  Shorten the items that don't fit in the
middle?

Accessing file#var in a function should not need the g: prepended.

When exiting detects a modified buffer, instead of opening the buffer in the
current tab, use an existing tab, if possible.  Like finding a window where
the buffer is displayed. (Antonios Tsakiridis)

When ":cn" moves to an error in the same line the message isn't shortened.
Only skip shortening for ":cc"?

Problem with ":call" and dictionary function. Hari Krishna Dara, Charles
Campbell 2006 Jul 06.

A custom completion function in a ":command" cannot be a Funcref. (Andy
Wokula, 2007 Aug 25)

Problem with using :redir in user command completion function? (Hari Krishna
Dara, 2006 June 21)

Another resizing problem when setting 'columns' and 'lines' to a very large
number. (Tony Mechelynck, 2007 Feb 6)

After starting Vim, using '0 to jump somewhere in a file, ":sp" doesn't center
the cursor line.  It works OK after some other commands.

Win32: Is it possible to have both postscript and Win32 printing?

Problem with 'cdpath' on MS-Windows when a directory is equal to $HOME. (2006
Jul 26, Gary Johnson)

Using UTF-8 character with ":command" does not work properly. (Matt Wozniski,
2008 Sep 29)

In the Netbeans interface add a "vimeval" function, so that the other side can
check the result of has("patch13").

Cursor line at bottom of window instead of halfway after saving view and
restoring.  Only with 'nowrap'. (Robert Webb, 2008 Aug 25)

Netrw has trouble executing autocommands only for a directory.  Add <isdir>
and <notisdir> to autocommand patterns?  Also <isfile>?

Add command modifier that skips wildcard expansion, so that you don't need to
put backslashes before special chars, only for white space.

In mswin.vim: Instead of mapping <C-V> for Insert mode in a complicated way,
can it be done like ":imap <C-V> <MiddleMouse>" without negative side effects?

When right after "vim file", "M" then CTRL-W v the windows are scrolled
differently and unexpectedly.  Caused by patch 7.2.398?

The magic clipboard format "VimClipboard2" appears in several places.  Should
be only one.

Win32, NTFS: When editing a specific infostream directly and 'backupcopy' is
"auto" should detect this situation and work like 'backupcopy' is "yes".  File
name is something like "c:\path\foo.txt:bar", includes a colon.  (Alex
Jakushev, 2008 Feb 1)

Small problem displaying diff filler line when opening windows with a script.
(David Luyer, 2007 Mar 1 ~/Mail/oldmail/mool/in.15872 )

Is it allowed that 'backupext' is empty?  Problems when backup is in same dir
as original file?  If it's OK don't compare with 'patchmode'. (Thierry Closen)

Patch for adding ":lscscope". (Navdeep Parhar, 2007 Apr 26; update 2008 Apr
23)

":mkview" isn't called with the right buffer argument.  Happens when using
tabs and the autocommand "autocmd BufWinLeave * mkview".  (James Vega, 2007
Jun 18)

When completing from another file that uses a different encoding completion
text has the wrong encoding.  E.g., when 'encoding' is utf-8 and file is
latin1.  Example from Gombault Damien, 2007 Mar 24.

In gvim the backspace key produces a backspace character, but on Linux the
VERASE key is Delete.  Set VERASE to Backspace? (patch by Stephane Chazelas,
2007 Oct 16)

TermResponse autocommand isn't always triggered when using vimdiff. (Aron
Griffis, 2007 Sep 19)

Create a gvimtutor.1 file and change Makefiles to install it.

When 'encoding' is utf-8 typing text at the end of the line causes previously
typed characters to be redrawn.  Caused by patch 7.1.329. (Tyler Spivey, 2008
Sep 3, 11)

":vimgrep" does not recognize a recursive symlink.  Is it possible to detect
this, at least for Unix (using device/inode)?

When switching between windows the cursor is often put in the middle.
Remember the relative position and restore that, just like lnum and col are
restored. (Luc St-Louis)

Add an option for a minimal text length before inserting a line break for
'textwidth'.  Avoids very short lines when a very long word follows.
(Kartik Agaram)


Better plugin support (not plugin manager, see elsewhere for that):
- Avoid use of feedkeys, add eval functions where needed:
  - manipulating the Visual selection?
- Add createmark(): add a mark like mM, but return a unique ID.  Need some way
  to clean them up again...  Use a name + the script ID.
  Add createmark( , 'c') to track inserts/deletes before the column.
- Plugins need to make a lot of effort, lots of mappings, to know what
  happened before pressing the key that triggers a plugin action.  How about
  keeping the last N pressed keys, so that they do not need to be mapped?
- equivalent of netbeans_beval_cb().  With an autocommand?
- Add something to enable debugging when a remote message is received.


More patches:
-   Another patch for Javascript indenting. (Hari Kumar, 2010 Jul 11)
    Needs a few tests.
-   Add 'cscopeignorecase' option. (Liang Wenzhi, 2006 Sept 3)
-   Extra argument to strtrans() to translate special keys to their name (Eric
    Arnold, 2006 May 22)
-   Mac: indicate whether a buffer was modified. (Nicolas Weber, 2006 Jun 30)
-   Allow negative 'nrwidth' for left aligning. (Nathan Laredo, 2006 Aug 16)
-   ml_append_string(): efficiently append to an existing line. (Brad
    Beveridge, 2006 Aug 26)  Use in some situations, e.g., when pasting a
    character at a time?
-   recognize hex numbers better. (Mark Manning, 2006 Sep 13)
-   Add <AbbrExpand> key, to expand an abbreviation in a mapping. (Kana
    Natsuno, 2008 Jul 17)
-   Add 'wspara' option, also accept blank lines like empty lines for "{" and
    "}". (Mark Lundquist, 2008 Jul 18)
-   Patch to add CTRL-T to delete part of a path on cmdline. (Adek, 2008 Jul
    21)
-   Instead of creating a copy of the tutor in all the shell scripts, do it in
    vimtutor.vim. (Jan Minar, 2008 Jul 20)
-   When fsync() fails there is no hint about what went wrong.  Patch by Ben
    Schmidt, 2008 Jul 22.
-   testdir/Make_dos_sh.mak for running tests with MingW. (Bill McCarthy, 2008
    Sep 13)
-   Replace ccomplete.vim by cppcomplete.vim from www.vim.org?  script 1520 by
    Vissale Neang.  (Martin Stubenschrott) Asked Vissale to make the scripts
    more friendly for the Vim distribution.
    New version received 2008 Jan 6.
    No maintenance in two years...
-   Patch to open dropped files in new tabs. (Michael Trim, 2010 Aug 3)

Awaiting updated patches:
9   Mac unicode patch (Da Woon Jung, Eckehard Berns):
    8   Add patch from Muraoka Taro (Mar 16) to support input method on Mac?
	New patch 2004 Jun 16
    - selecting proportional font breaks display
    - UTF-8 text causes display problems.  Font replacement causes this.
    - Command-key mappings do not work. (Alan Schmitt)
    - With 'nopaste' pasting is wrong, with 'paste' Command-V doesn't work.
      (Alan Schmitt)
    - remove 'macatsui' option when this has been fixed.
    - when 'macatsui' is off should we always convert to "macroman" and ignore
      'termencoding'?
9   HTML indenting can be slow.  Caused by using searchpair().  Can search()
    be used instead?  A.Politz is looking into a solution.
8   Win32: Add minidump generation. (George Reilly, 2006 Apr 24)
7   Completion of network shares, patch by Yasuhiro Matsumoto.
    Update 2004 Sep 6.
    How does this work?  Missing comments.
8   Add a few more command names to the menus.  Patch from Jiri Brezina
    (28 feb 2002).  Will mess the translations...
7   ATTENTION dialog choices are more logical when "Delete it" appears
    before "Quit".  Patch by Robert Webb, 2004 May 3.
-   Include flipcase patch: ~/vim/patches/wall.flipcase2 ?  Make it work
    for multibyte characters.
-   Win32: add options to print dialog.  Patch from Vipin Aravind.
-   Patch to add highlighting for whitespace. (Tom Schumm, 2003 Jul 5)
    use the patch that keeps using HLF_8 if HLF_WS has not
    been given values.
    Add section in help files for these highlight groups?
7   Add "DefaultFG" and "DefaultBG" for the colors of the menu. (Marcin
    Dalecki has a patch for Motif and Carbon)
-   Add possibility to highlight specific columns (for Fortran).  Or put a
    line in between columns (e.g., for 'textwidth').
    Patch to add 'hlcolumn' from Vit Stradal, 2004 May 20.
    confirm()		add "flags" argument, with 'v' for vertical
			    layout and 'c' for console dialog. (Haegg)
			    Flemming Madsen has a patch for the 'c' flag
			    (2003 May 13)
    raisewin()		raise gvim window (see HierAssist patch for
			    Tcl implementation ~/vim/HierAssist/ )
    taglist()		add argument to specify maximum number of matches.
			useful for interactive things or completion.
    col('^')            column of first non-white character.
			Can use "len(substitute(getline('.'), '\S.*', '', ''))
			+ 1", but that's ugly.
7   Add patch from Benoit Cerrina to integrate Vim and Perl functions
    better.  Now also works for Ruby (2001 Nov 10)
7   When 'rightleft' is set, the search pattern should be displayed right
    to left as well?  See patch of Dec 26. (Nadim Shaikli)
8   Option to lock all used memory so that it doesn't get swapped to disk
    (unencrypted).  Patch by Jason Holt, 2003 May 23.  Uses mlock.
7   Add ! register, for shell commands. (patch from Grenie)
8   In the gzip plugin, also recognize *.gz.orig, *.gz.bak, etc.  Like it's
    done for filetype detection.  Patch from Walter Briscoe, 2003 Jul 1.
7   Add a "-@ filelist" argument: read file names from a file. (David
    Kotchan has a patch for it)
7   Add ":justify" command.  Patch from Vit Stradal 2002 Nov 25.
-   findmatch() should be adjusted for Lisp.  See remark at
    get_lisp_indent().  Esp. \( and \) should be skipped. (Dorai Sitaram,
    incomplete patch Mar 18)
-   For GUI Find/Replace dialog support using a regexp.  Patch for Motif
    and GTK by degreneir (nov 10 and nov 18).
-   Patch for "paranoid mode" by Kevin Collins, March 7.  Needs much more work.
-   Patch for redo register. (Ben Schmidt, 2007 Oct 19)
    Await response to question to make the register writable.


Better 'rightleft' or BIDI support:
- Minimal Vi with bidi support: https://github.com/aligrudi/neatvi
  By Ali Gholami Rudi, also worked on arabic.c


Spell checking:
-   List of common misspellings in English:
    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Lists_of_common_misspellings/For_machines
    German:
    https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Liste_von_Tippfehlern/F%C3%BCr_Maschinen
    There are other languages.
-   [s does not find missing capital at start of the line.  #10838
    Probably because the dot at the end of the previous line isn't seen.
-   When 'cursorline' is set and the first word should have SpellCap
    highlighting, redrawing the line removes it when moving the cursor away
    from the line. (#7085)  Would need to inspect the end of the previous line
    and update "capcol_lnum" and "cap_col".
-   Mixup of highlighting when there is a match and SpellBad. (ZyX, 2015 Jan 1)
-   Spell files use a latin single quote. Unicode also has another single
    quote: 0x2019.  (Ron Aaron, 2014 Apr 4)
    New OpenOffice spell files support this with ICONV.  But they are not
    compatible with Vim spell files.  The old files can no longer be
    downloaded.
-   Add a feature to only consider two spaces after a dot to start a new
    sentence.  Don't give the capitalization error when there is one space.
-   Add a way to specify punctuation characters.  Add the superscript numbers
    by default: 0x2070, 0xb9, 0xb2, 0xb3, 0x2074 - 0x2079.
-   In popup menu: If the only problem is the case of the first character,
    don't offer "ignore" and "add to word list".
-   Spell menu: When using the Popup menu to select a replacement word,
    ":spellrepeat" doesn't work.  SpellReplace() uses setline().  Can it use
    "z=" somehow?  Or use a new function.


Quickfix/Location List:
-   Window size is wrong when using quickfix window. (Lifepillar, 2018 Aug 24,
    #2999)
-   When using CTRL-W CR in the quickfix window, the jumplist in the opened
    window is cleared, to avoid going back to the list of errors buffer (would
    have two windows with it).  Can we just remove the jump list entries for
    the quickfix buffer?
-   When an item in the quickfix list has a file name that does not exist,
    behave like the item was not a match for :cnext.
-   When adding an item to a new quickfix list make ":cnext" jump to that
    item.  Make a difference being at the first item and not having used
    :cnext at all.  (Afanasiy Fet, 2017 Jan 3)
-   When opening quickfix window, disable spell checking?
-   Patch for supporting count before CR in quickfix window. (AOYAMA Shotaro,
    2007 Jan 1)
-   Patch from Herculano de Lima Einloft Neto for better formatting of the
    quickfix window (2004 dec 2)
-   Amiga: When using quickfix with the Manx compiler we only get the first 25
    errors.  How do we get the rest?
8   The quickfix file is read without conversion, thus in 'encoding'.  Add an
    option to specify the encoding of the errorfile and convert it.  Also for
    ":grep" and ":helpgrep".
    More generic solution: support a filter (e.g., by calling a function).
7   Add a command that goes back to the position from before jumping to the
    first quickfix location.

Vi incompatibility:
-   Try new POSIX tests, made after my comments. (Geoff Clare, 2005 April 7)
    Version 1.5 is in ~/src/posix/1.5. (Lynne Canal)
8   With undo/redo only marks in the changed lines should be changed.  Other
    marks should be kept.  Vi keeps each mark at the same text, even when it
    is deleted or restored. (Webb)
    Also: A mark is lost after: make change, undo, redo and undo.
    Example: "{d''" then "u" then "d''": deletes an extra line, because the ''
    position is one line down. (Veselinovic)
8   When stdin is not a tty, and Vim reads commands from it, an error should
    make Vim exit.
7   Unix Vim (not gvim): Typing CTRL-C in Ex mode should finish the line
    (currently you can continue typing, but it's truncated later anyway).
    Requires a way to make CTRL-C interrupt select() when in cooked input.
8   When loading a file in the .exrc, Vi loads the argument anyway.  Vim skips
    loading the argument if there is a file already.  When no file argument
    given, Vi starts with an empty buffer, Vim keeps the loaded file. (Bearded)
6   In Insert mode, when using <BS> or <Del>, don't wipe out the text, but
    only move back the cursor.	Behaves like '$' in 'cpoptions'.  Use a flag
    in 'cpoptions' to switch this on/off.
8   When editing a file which is a symbolic link, and then opening another
    symbolic link on the same file, Vim uses the name of the first one.
    Adjust the file name in the buffer to the last one used?  Use several file
    names in one buffer???
    Also: When first editing file "test", which is symlink to "test2", and
    then editing "test2", you end up editing buffer "test" again.  It's not
    logical that the name that was first used sticks with the buffer.
7   The ":undo" command works differently in Ex mode.  Edit a file, make some
    changes, "Q", "undo" and _all_ changes are undone, like the ":visual"
    command was one command.
    On the other hand, an ":undo" command in an Ex script only undoes the last
    change (e.g., use two :append commands, then :undo).
7   The ":map" command output overwrites the command.  Perhaps it should keep
    the ":map" when it's used without arguments?
7   CTRL-L is not the end of a section?  It is for Posix!  Make it an option.
7   Add a way to send an email for a crashed edit session.  Create a file when
    making changes (containing name of the swap file), delete it when writing
    the file.  Supply a program that can check for crashed sessions (either
    all, for a system startup, or for one user, for in a .login file).
7   Vi doesn't do autoindenting when input is not from a tty (in Ex mode).
7   "z3<CR>" should still use the whole window, but only redisplay 3 lines.
7   ":tag xx" should move the cursor to the first non-blank.  Or should it go
    to the match with the tag?	Option?
7   Implement 'autoprint'/'ap' option.
7   Add flag in 'cpoptions' that makes <BS> after a count work like <Del>
    (Sayre).
7   Add flag in 'cpoptions' that makes operator (yank, filter) not move the
    cursor, at least when cancelled. (default Vi compatible).
7   This Vi-trick doesn't work: "Q" to go to Ex mode, then "g/pattern/visual".
    In Vi you can edit in visual mode, and when doing "Q" you jump to the next
    match.  Nvi can do it too.
7   Support '\' for line continuation in Ex mode for these commands: (Luebking)
	g/./a\		    g/pattern1/ s/pattern2/rep1\\
	line 1\		    line 2\\
	line 2\		    line 3\\
	.		    line4/
6   ":e /tmp/$tty" doesn't work.  ":e $uid" does.  Is $tty not set because of
    the way the shell is started?
6   Vi compatibility (optional): make "ia<CR><ESC>10." do the same strange
    thing.  (only repeat insert for the first line).


GTK+ GUI:
9   Crash with X command server over ssh. (Ciaran McCreesh, 2006 Feb 6)
8   GTK 2: Combining UTF-8 characters not displayed properly in menus (Mikolaj
    Machowski)  They are displayed as separate characters.  Problem in
    creating a label?
8   GTK 2: Combining UTF-8 characters are sometimes not drawn properly.
    Depends on the font size, "monospace 13" has the problem.  Vim seems to do
    everything right, must be a GTK bug.  Is there a way to work around it?
9   Can't paste a Visual selection from GTK-gvim to vim in xterm or Motif gvim
    when it is longer than 4000 characters.  Works OK from gvim to gvim and
    vim to vim.  Pasting through xterm (using the shift key) also works.
    It starts working after GTK gvim loses the selection and gains it again.
-   Gnome2: When moving the toolbar out of the dock, so that it becomes
    floating, it can no longer be moved.  Therefore making it float has been
    blocked for now.
-   Mapping with partial match not executed properly in GTK. (Ingo Karkat,
    #7082)
-   Add more testing of the GTK GUI.
    - gtk_test_widget_click() can be used to simulate a click in a widget.
-   Tests failing for "make testgui" with GTK:
    - Test_setbufvar_options()
    - Test_exit_callback_interval()
-   When adding a timer from 'balloonexpr' it won't fire, because
    g_main_context_iteration() doesn't return.  Need to trigger an event when
    the timer expires.
-   problem with 'L' in 'guioptions' changing the window width.  (Aaron
    Cornelius, 2012 Feb 6)
-   Patch to invert characters differently in GTK. (Yukihiro Nakadaira, 2013
    May 5)
-   drawing a double-width combining character over single-width characters
    doesn't look right. (Dominique Pelle, 2010 Aug 8)
-   tear-off menu does not work. (Kurt Sonnenmoser, 2010 Oct 25)
-   Patch for GTK buttons X1Mouse and X2Mouse. (Christian J. Robinson, 2010
    Aug 9)
-   When setting 'columns' in a startup script and doing ":vertical diffsplit"
    the window isn't redrawn properly, see two vertical bars.
-   when the Tab pages bar appears or disappears while the window is maximized
    the window is no longer maximized.  Patch that has some idea but doesn't
    work from Geoffrey Antos, 2008 May 5.  Also: the window may no longer fit
    on the screen, thus the command line is not visible.
-   Patch to support horizontal scroll wheel in GTK. Untested. (Bjorn
    Winckler, 2010 Jun 30)


Win32 GUI known bugs:
-   Win32: tearoff menu window should have a scrollbar when it's taller than
    the screen.
8   The -P argument doesn't work very well with many MDI applications.
    The last argument of CreateWindowEx() should be used, see MSDN docs.
    Tutorial: http://win32assembly.online.fr/tut32.html
6   Win32 GUI: With "-u NONE -U NONE" and doing "CTRL-W v" "CTRL-W o", the ":"
    of ":only" is highlighted like the cursor.  (Lipelis)
8   When 'encoding' is "utf-8", should use 'guifont' for both normal and wide
    characters to make Asian languages work.  Win32 fonts contain both
    type of characters.
7   When font smoothing is enabled, redrawing can become very slow.  The reason
    appears to be drawing with a transparent background.  Would it be possible
    to use an opaque background in most places?
7   The cursor color indicating IME mode doesn't work properly. (Shizhu Pan,
    2004 May 9)
8   Win32: When clicking on the gvim title bar, which gives it focus, produces
    a file-changed dialog, after clicking on a button in that dialog the gvim
    window follows the mouse.  The button-up event is lost.  Only with
    MS-Windows 98?
    Try this: ":set sw ts", get enter-prompt, then change the file in a
    console, go back to Vim and click "reload" in the dialog for the changed
    file: Window moves with the cursor!
    Put focus event in input buffer and let generic Vim code handle it?
8   When Vim is minimized and when maximizing it a file-changed dialog pops
    up, Vim isn't maximized.  It should be done before the dialog, so that it
    appears in the right position. (Webb)
9   When selecting at the more-prompt or hit-enter-prompt, the right mouse
    button doesn't give popup menu.
    At the hit-enter prompt CTRL-Y doesn't work to copy the modeless
    selection.
    On the command line, don't get a popup menu for the right mouse button.
    Let the middle button paste selected text (not the clipboard but the
    non-Visual selection)?  Otherwise CTRL-Y has to be used to copy the text.
8   When 'grepprg' doesn't execute, the error only flashes by, the
    user can hardly see what is wrong. (Moore)
    Could use vimrun with an "-nowait" argument to only wait when an error
    occurs, but "command.com" doesn't return an error code.
8   When the 'shell' cannot be executed, should give an appropriate error msg.
    Esp. for a filter command, currently it only complains the file could not
    be read.
7   At the hit-enter prompt scrolling now no longer works.  Need to use the
    keyboard to get around this.  Pretend <CR> was hit when the user tries to
    scroll?
7   Scrollbar width doesn't change when selecting other windows appearance.
    Also background color of Toolbar and rectangle below vert. scrollbar.
6   Drawing text transparently doesn't seem to work (when drawing part cursor).
8   CTRL key doesn't always work in combination with ALT key.  It does work
    for function keys, not for alphabetic characters.  Perhaps this is because
    CTRL-ALT is used by Windows as AltGr?
8   CTRL-- doesn't work for AZERTY, because it's CTRL-[ for QWERTY.  How do we
    know which keyboard is being used?
7   When scrolling, and a background color is dithered, the dither pattern
    doesn't always join correctly between the scrolled area and the new drawn
    area (Koloseike).
8   When gui_init_font() is called with "*", p_guifont is freed while it might
    still be used somewhere.  This is too tricky, do the font selection first,
    then set the new font by name (requires putting all logfont parameters in
    the font name).
-   When running a fast timer, the cursor no longer blinks.  Was reported:
    cursor blinks in terminal on widows with a timer. (xtal8, #2142)
-   Last message from startup doesn't show up when there is an echoerr
    command. (Cyril Slobin, 2009 Mar 13)


Motif:
6   New Motif toolbar button from Marcin Dalecki:
    - When the mouse pointer is over an Agide button the red becomes black.
      Something with the way colors are specified in the .xpm file.
    - The pixmap is two pixels smaller than it should be.  The gap is filled
      with grey instead of the current toolbar background color.
9   Can configure be changed to disable netbeans if the Xpm library is
    required and it's missing?
8   When using the resource "Vim*borderwidth 2" the widgets are positioned
    wrong.
9   XIM is disabled by default for SGI/IRIX.  Fix XIM so that 'imdisable' can
    be off by default.
9   XIM doesn't work properly for Motif. (Yasuhiro Matsumoto)  For now,
    keep XIM active at all times when the input method has the preediting
    flag.
8   X11: A menu that contains an umlaut is truncated at that character.
    Happens when the locale is "C", which uses ASCII instead of IS0-8859-1.
    Is there a way to use latin1 by default?  Gnome_init() seems to do this.
8   Perhaps use fontsets for everything?
6   When starting in English and switching the language to Japanese, setting
    the locale with ":lang", 'guifontset' and "hi menu font=", deleting all
    menus and setting them again, the menus don't use the new font.  Most of
    the tooltips work though...
7   Motif: when using a file selection dialog, the specified file name is not
    always used (when specifying a filter or another directory).
8   When 'encoding' is different from the current locale (e.g., utf-8) the
    menu strings don't work.  Requires conversion from 'encoding' to the
    current locale.  Workaround: set 'langmenu'.


Motif GUI:
-   gui_mch_browsedir() is missing, browsedir() doesn't work nicely.
7   Use XmStringCreateLocalized() instead of XmStringCreateSimple()?
    David Harrison says it's OK (it exists in Motif 1.2).
8   Lesstif: When deleting a menu that's torn off, the torn off menu becomes
    very small instead of disappearing.  When closing it, Vim crashes.
    (Phillipps)


GUI:
9   On Solaris, creating the popup menu causes the right mouse button no
    longer to work for extending the selection. (Halevy)
9   When running an external program, it can't always be killed with CTRL-C.
    e.g., on Solaris 5.5, when using "K" (Keech).  Other 'guipty' problems on
    Solaris 2.6. (Marley)
9   On Solaris: Using a "-geometry" argument, bigger than the window where Vim
    is started from, causes empty lines below the cmdline. (raf)
8   When setting 'langmenu', it should be effective immediately.  Store both
    the English and the translated text in the menu structure.  Re-generate
    the translation when 'langmenu' has changed.
8   Basic flaw in the GUI code: NextScreen is updated before calling
    gui_write(), but the GUI code relies on NextScreen to represent the state
    of where it is processing the output.
    Need better separation of Vim core and GUI code.
8   When fontset support is enabled, setting 'guifont' to a single font
    doesn't work.
8   Menu priority for sub-menus for: Amiga.
8   When translating menus ignore the part after the Tab, the shortcut.  So
    that the same menu item with a different shortcut (e.g., for the Mac) are
    still translated.
8   Add menu separators for Amiga.
8   Add way to specify the file filter for the browse dialog.  At least for
    browse().
8   Add dialog for search/replace to other GUIs?  Tk has something for this,
    use that code?  Or use console dialog.
8   When selecting a font with the font dialog and the font is invalid, the
    error message disappears too quick.
7   More features in the find/replace dialog:
    - regexp on/off
    - search in selection/buffer/all buffers/directory
       when all buffers/directory is used:
	- filter for file name
       when directory is used:
	- subdirectory on/off
	- top directory browser
8   gui_check_colors() is not called at the right moment.  Do it much later,
    to avoid problems.
8   gui_update_cursor() is called for a cursor shape change, even when there
    are mappings to be processed.  Only do something when going to wait for
    input.  Or maybe every 100 ms?
8   X11: When the window size is reduced to fit on screen, there are blank
    lines below the text and bottom scrollbar.  "gvim -geometry 80x78+0+0".
    When the "+0+0" is omitted it works.
8   When starting an external command, and 'guipty' set, BS and DEL are mixed
    up.  Set erase character somehow?
8   The compose key doesn't work properly (Cepas).  Both for Win32 and X11.
7   The cursor in an inactive window should be hollow.  Currently it's not
    visible.
7   GUI on Solaris 2.5.1, using /usr/dt/..: When gvim starts, cursor is
    hollow, after window lowered/raised it's OK. (Godfrey)
7   When starting GUI with ":gui", and window is made smaller because it
    doesn't fit on the screen, there is an extra redraw.
8   When setting font with .Xdefaults, there is an extra empty line at the
    bottom, which disappears when using ":set guifont=<Tab>". (Chadzelek)
8   When font shape changes, but not the size, doing ":set font=" does not
    redraw the screen with the new font.  Also for Win32.
    When the size changes, on Solaris 2.5 there isn't a redraw for the
    remaining part of the window (Phillipps).
-   Flashes really badly in certain cases when running remotely from a Sun.
4   Re-write the code so that the highlighting isn't changed multiple times
    when doing a ":hi clear".  The color changes happen three or more times
    currently.  This is very obvious on a 66Mhz 486.


Win32 console:
8   Should $USERPROFILE be preferred above $HOMEDRIVE/$HOMEPATH?  No, but it's
    a good fallback, thus use:
	    $HOME
	    $HOMEDRIVE$HOMEPATH
	    SHGetSpecialFolderPath(NULL, lpzsPath, CSIDL_APPDATA, FALSE);
	    $USERPROFILE
	    SHGetSpecialFolderPath(NULL, lpzsPath, CSIDL_COMMON_APPDATA, FALSE);
	    $ALLUSERSPROFILE
	    $SYSTEMDRIVE\
	    C:\
8   Win32 console: <M-Up> and <M-Down> don't work. (Geddes)  We don't have
    special keys for these.  Should use modifier + key.
8   Win32 console: caps-lock makes non-alpha keys work like with shift.
    Should work like in the GUI version.
8   Environment variables in DOS are not case sensitive.  Make a define for
    STRCMP_ENV(), and use it when comparing environment var names.
8   Setting 'shellslash' has no immediate effect.  Change all file names when
    it is set/reset?  Or only use it when actually executing a shell command?
8   When editing a file on a Samba server, case might matter.  ":e file"
    followed by ":e FILE" will edit "file" again, even though "FILE" might be
    another one.  Set last used name in buflist_new()?  Fix do_ecmd(), etc.
8   When a buffer is editing a file like "ftp://mach/file", which is not going
    to be used like a normal file name, don't change the slashes to
    backslashes. (Ronald Hoellwarth)


Win32 console:
9   When editing a file by its short file name, it should be expanded into its
    long file name, to avoid problems like these: (Mccollister)
     1) Create a file called ".bashrc" using some other editor.
     2) Drag that file onto a shortcut or the actual executable.
     3) Note that the file name is something like BASHRC~1
     4) Go to File->Save As menu item and type ".bashrc" as the file name.
     5) Press "Yes" to indicate that I want to overwrite the file.
     6) Note that the message "File exists (add ! to override)" is displayed
	and the file is not saved.
    Use FindFirstFile() to expand a file name and directory in the path to its
    long name.
8   Also implement 'conskey' option for the Win32 console version?  Look at
    how Xvi does console I/O under Windows NT.
7   Re-install the use of $TERM and support the use of different terminals,
    besides the console.
8   Use of <altgr> modifier doesn't work?  5.3 was OK. (Garcia-Suarez/Guckes)
9   Mapping <C-S-Tab> doesn't work correctly.  How to see the difference with
    <C-S-i>?
9   tmpnam() uses file in root of file system: "\asdf".  That doesn't work on
    a Netware network drive.  Use same function as for Win32 GUI?
8   In os_win32.h, HAVE_STRICMP and HAVE_STRNICMP are defined only if __GNUC__
    is not defined.  Shouldn't that be the other way around?


Amiga:
8   In mch_inchar() should use convert_input_safe() to handle incomplete byte
    sequences.
9   In mch_expandpath() a "*" is to be expanded, but "\*" isn't.  Remove
    backslashes in result.
8   Executing a shell, only one option for 'shell' is separated.  Should do
    all options, using white space separation.


Macintosh:
-   GUI: gui_mch_browsedir() is missing.
7   Loading the Perl library only works on OS/X 10.2 or 10.3, never on both.
    Load the Perl library dynamically see Python sources file dynload_mac
    (Jack)
    dynamic linking: http://developer.apple.com/technotes/tn2002/tn2064.html
8   inputdialog() doesn't resize when giving more text lines. (David Fishburn,
    2006 Sept 28)
8   Define vim_mkdir() for Macintosh.
8   Define mch_writable() for Macintosh.
9   When DiskLock is running, using a swap file causes a crash.  Appears to be
    a problem with writing a file that starts with a dot. (Giacalone)
9   In mac_expandpath() check that handling of backslashes is done properly.
-   Build problem with small features on Mac OS X 10.6. (Rainer, 2011 Jan 24)
-   Version of netbeans.c for use with MacVim. (Kazuki Sakamoto, 2010 Nov 18)
-   Mac with X11: clipboard doesn't work properly. (Raf, 2010 Aug 16)
-   Move Carbon todo items to os_mac.txt.  Note that this version is frozen,
    try the Cocoa version.
-   After a ":vsplit" the left scrollbar doesn't appear until 'columns' is
    changed or the window is resized.
-   Patch for configure: remove arch from ruby link args. (Knezevic, 2008 Mar
    5)  Alternative: Kazuki Sakamoto, Mar 7.
-   trouble compiling with Motif, requires --disable-darwin. (Raf, 2008 Aug 1)
    Reply by Ben Schmidt.
-   Using gvim: netrw window disappears. (Nick Lo, 2006 Jun 21)


"Small" problems:
-   When using e_secure in do_one_cmd() mention the command being executed,
    otherwise it's not clear where it comes from.
9   For Turkish vim_tolower() and vim_toupper() also need to use utf_
    functions for characters below 0x80. (Sertacyildiz)
9   When the last edited file is a help file, using '0 in a new Vim doesn't
    edit the file as a help file.  'filetype' is OK, but 'iskeyword' isn't,
    file isn't readonly, etc.
8   When an ":edit" is inside a try command and the ATTENTION prompt is used,
    the :catch commands are always executed, also when the file is edited
    normally.  Should reset did_emsg and undo side effects.  Also make sure
    the ATTENTION message shows up.  Servatius Brandt works on this.
7   Vimtutor leaves escape sequence in terminal. This is the xterm response to
    requesting the version number.  (Yasuhiro Matsumoto)
8   When redirecting and using ":silent" the current column for displaying and
    redirection can be different.  Use a separate variable to hold the column
    for redirection.
7   The messages for "vim --help" and "vim --version" don't use
    'termencoding'.
-   Could the hit-enter prompt be avoided when a message only overlaps the
    'showcmd' area?  Clear that area when the next cmd is typed.
8   When 'scrollbind' is set, a window won't scroll horizontally if the cursor
    line is too short.  Add a word in 'scrollopt' to allow moving the cursor
    to longer line that is visible.  A similar thing is done for the GUI when
    using the horizontal scrollbar.
8   When giving a ":bwipeout" command a file-changed dialog may popup for this
    buffer, which is pointless.  (Mike Williams)
8   On MS-Windows ":make" doesn't show output while it is working.  Use the
    tee.exe from  http://unxutils.sourceforge.net/ ?  About 16 Kbyte in the
    UnxUtils.zip archive.
    Is it better than what we have in src/tee?
8   When doing Insert mode completion a mapping cannot recursively call
    edit(), because the completion information is global.  Put everything in
    an allocated structure?
7   mb_off2cells() doesn't work correctly on the tail byte of a double-byte
    character. (Yasuhiro Matsumoto)  It should return 1 when used on a tail
    byte, like for utf-8.  Store second byte of double-byte in ScreenLines2[]
    (like for DBCS_JPNU) and put a zero in the second byte (like for UTF-8).
7   Inside a function with "perl <<EOF" a line with "$i++" is recognized as an
    ":insert" command, causing the following "endfunction" not to be found.
    Add skipping this perl construction inside function definitions.
7   When 'ttimeoutlen' is 10 and 'timeoutlen' is 1000, there is a keycode
    "<Esc>a" and a mapping <Esc>x", when typing "<Esc>a" with half a second
    delay should not be interpreted as a keycode. (Hans Ginzel)
7   ":botright 1 new" twice causes all window heights to be changed.  Make the
    bottom window only bigger as much as needed.
7   The Cygwin and MingW makefiles define "PC", but it's not used anywhere.
    Remove? (Dan Sharp)
9   User commands use the context of the script they were defined in.  This
    causes a "s:var" argument to unexpectedly use a variable in the defining
    script, not the calling script.  Add an argument to ":command":
    "-keepcontext".  Do replace <SID>, so that a function in the defining
    script can be called.
8   The Japanese message translations for MS-Windows are called ja.sjis.po,
    but they use encoding cp932.  Rename the file and check that it still
    works.
8   A very long message in confirm() can't be quit.  Make this possible with
    CTRL-C.
8   "gf" always excludes trailing punctuation characters.  file_name_in_line()
    is currently fixed to use ".,:;!".  Add an option to make this
    configurable?
8   'hkmap' should probably be global-local.
8   Using ":s" in a function changes the previous replacement string.  Save
    "old_sub" in save_search_patterns()?
8   Should allow multibyte characters for the delimiter: ":s+a+b+" where "+"
    is a multibyte character.
8   When appending to a file and 'patchmode' isn't empty, a backup file is
    always written, even when the original file already exists.
9   When getting focus while writing a large file, could warn for this file
    being changed outside of Vim.  Avoid checking this while the file is being
    written.
7   The message in bt_dontwrite_msg() could be clearer.
8   The script ID that is stored with an option and displayed with ":verbose
    set" isn't reset when the option is set internally.  For example when
    'foldlevel' is set from 'foldlevelstart'.
8   Also store the line number with the script ID and use it for ":verbose",
    so that "set nocompatible" is found when it changes other option values.
    When an option is set indirectly mention the command?  E.g. when
    ":diffsplit" sets 'foldmethod'.
8   In the fileformat dialog, "Cancel" isn't translated.  Add a global
    variable for this. (Eduardo Fernandez)
9   When editing a file with 'readonly' set, there is no check for an existing
    swap file.  Then using ":write" (without making any changes) doesn't give
    a warning either.  Should check for an existing swap file without creating
    one. Unfinished patch by Ian Kelling, 2008 July 14.
7   When 'showbreak' is set, the amount of space a Tab occupies changes.
    Should work like 'showbreak' is inserted without changing the Tabs.
7   When 'mousefocus' is set and switching to another window with a typed
    command, the mouse pointer may be moved to a part of the window that's
    covered by another window and we lose focus.  Only move in the y
    direction, not horizontally?
8   ":hardcopy":
    - Using the cterm_color[] table is wrong when t_colors is > 16.
    - Need to handle unprintable characters.
    - Win32: On a B&W printer syntax highlighting isn't visible.  Perform
      dithering to make grey text?
    - Add a flag in 'printoptions' to add an empty page to make the total
      number even.  "addempty"? (Mike Williams)
    - Respect 'linebreak'.  Perhaps also 'showbreak'?
    - Should interpret CTRL-L as a page break.
    - Grey line numbers are not always readable.  Add field in 'printoptions'.
      Default to black when no syntax highlighting.
    - Be able to print a window in diff mode.
    - Be able to specify a colorscheme to use for printing.  And a separate
      one for B&W printing (if that can be detected).
8   When 'virtualedit' is "block,insert" and encoding is "utf-8", selecting a
    block of one double-wide character, then "d" deletes only half of it.
8   When 'virtualedit' is set, should "I" in blockwise visual mode also insert
    in lines that don't extend into the block?
8   With 'virtualedit' set, in Insert mode just after the end of line, CTRL-O
    yh does not yank the last character of the line. (Pavel Papushev)
    Doing "hl" first appears to make it work.
8   With 'virtualedit' set it's possible to move into the blank area from
    'linebreak'.
8   With 'virtualedit' set and 'selection' "exclusive", a Visual selection
    that ends in or after a tab, "d" doesn't delete (part of) the tab.
    (Helmut Stiegler)
9   When jumping to a tag, the search pattern is put in the history.  When
    'magic' is on, the pattern may not work.  Translate the pattern depending
    on p_magic when putting it in the history?  Alternative: Store value of
    'magic' in history.  (Margo)
9   optwin.vim: Restoring a mapping for <Space> or <CR> is not correct for
    ":noremap".  Add "mapcmd({string}, {mode})?  Use code from ":mkexrc".
9   term_console is used before it is set (msdos, Amiga).
9   Get out-of-memory for ":g/^/,$s//@/" on 1000 lines, this is not handled
    correctly.  Get many error messages while redrawing the screen, which
    cause another redraw, etc.
8   [<C-I> doesn't work when '*' is in 'iskeyword'.  find_pattern_in_path()
    must escape special characters in the pattern.
8   Vim can overwrite a read-only file with ":w!".  ":w" can't overwrite an
    existing file, "w!" can, but perhaps not a read-only file?  Then use
    ":w!!" for that.
    Or ask for permission to overwrite it (if file can be made writable) and
    restore file to readonly afterwards.
    Overwriting a file for which a swap file exists is similar issue.
7   When compiled with "xterm_clipboard", startup can be slower and might get
    error message for invalid $DISPLAY.  Try connecting to the X server in the
    background (forked), so that Vim starts up quicker?  Connect as soon as
    the clipboard is to be used (Visual select mode starts, paste from
    clipboard)
7   X11: Some people prefer to use CLIPBOARD instead of PRIMARY for the normal
    selection.  Add an "xclipboard" argument to the 'clipboard' option? (Mark
    Waggoner)
6   When the xterm reports the number of colors, a redraw occurs.  This is
    annoying on a slow connection.  Wait for the xterm to report the number of
    colors before drawing the screen.  With a timeout.
8   When the builtin xterm termcap contains codes that are not wanted, need a
    way to avoid using the builtin termcap.
8   Xterm sends ^[[H for <Home> and ^[[F for <End> in some mode.  Also
    recognize these keys?  Mostly useful for xterm simulators, like gnometerm.
    See http://dickey.his.com/xterm/xterm.faq.html#xterm_pc_style.
8   '[ and '] should be set to start/end of line when using a linewise operator
    (e.g., ":w").
8   CTRL-A can't handle big "long" numbers, they become negative.  Check for
    "-" character, if not present, use unsigned long.
8   Add suspending with CTRL-Z at the "more" prompt, and when executing a long
    script in do_cmdline().
8   When using 'hidden', many swap files will be open.  When Vim runs into the
    maximum number of open files, error messages will appear.  Detect that
    this problem is present, and close any hidden files that don't have
    changes.
8   Core dump within signal function: gdb doesn't show stack backtrace!  Option
    to skip catch_signals()?
9   Repeating a "cw" with "." doesn't work if the text was pasted from the
    clipboard. (Thomas Jones)  It's because the menu/toolbar item exits Insert
    mode and uses "gP".  How to fix this without breaking inserting a block of
    text?
8   In Replace mode pasting from the clipboard (using menu or toolbar) inserts
    all the text.  Add ":rmenu"?
8   Pasting with the mouse in Replace mode inserts the text, instead of
    overwriting, when it is more than one line.  Same for using <C-R>.
9   CTRL-E and CTRL-Y don't work in small window when 'so' is 4 and lines are
    wrapping (Acevedo/in.226).  E.g., when using CTRL-E, window height 7,
    window might actually scroll down when last line of buffer is displayed.
    --> Remember if the previous command was "cursor follows screen" or
    "screen follow cursor" and use this in cursupdate().
7   tilde_replace() can only handle "~/", should also do "~user/".
    Get the list of home directories (from /etc/passwd?  Use getpwent()) and
    use some clever algorithm to match a path with that.  Find common strings
    in the list?
8   When dragging status line with mouse, sometimes a jump when first clicking
    on the status line (caused by 'winheight').  Select window on button up,
    instead of on button down.
8   Dragging the status line doesn't scroll but redraw.
8   When performing incremental search, should abort searching as soon as a
    character is typed.
8   When the value of $MAKE contains a path, configure can't handle this.
    It's an autoconf bug.  Remove the path from $MAKE to work around it.
8   How to set VIMRC_FILE to \"something\" for configure?  Why does this not
    work: CFLAGS='-DVIMRC_FILE=\"/mydir/myfile\"' ./configure
8   The temporary file is sometimes not writable.  Check for this, and use an
    alternate name when it isn't.  Or add the 'temptemplate' option: template
    for the temp file name ":set temptemplate=/usr/tmp/?????.tmp".
    Also: Win32 version uses Windows temp directory, which might not work for
    cygwin bash.
7   Get error "*, \+ or \( operand could be empty" for pattern "\(.\)\1\{3}".
    Remember flags for backreferences.
7   When switching to Daylight Saving Time, Vim complains that a file has been
    changed since last read.  Can we use a function that uses GMT?
7   When completing an environment variable after a '$', check for file names
    that contain a '$' after all have been found.
8   When "cm" termcap entry is missing, starting gvim shouldn't complain about
    it. (Lohner)  Try out with "vt100" entry, cm replaced with cX.
7   When an include file starts with "../", the check for already visiting
    this file doesn't work.  Need to simplify the file name.
7   The names and comments for the arguments of do_browse() are confusing.
    "dflt" isn't the default file name when "initdir" is not NULL and
    "initdir" is the default path to be used.
7   When 'scrolloff' is exactly half the window height, "j" causes a scroll of
    two lines at a time.  "k" doesn't do this. (Cory T. Echols)


I can't reproduce these (if you can, let me know how!):
9   NT 4.0 on NTFS file system: Editing ".bashrc" (drag and drop), file
    disappears.  Editing ".xyz" is OK.  Also, drag&drop only works for three
    files. (McCollister)


Problems that will (probably) not be solved:
-   GTK: when using the popup menu with spelling suggestions and releasing the
    right mouse button before the menu appears selecting an item with the
    right mouse button has no effect.  GTK does not produce an event for this.
-   GTK 2: Cannot use the file selector.  When using it many things become
    slow.  This is caused by some code in GTK that writes
    ~/.recently-used.xbel every time an event is handled.  It assumes the main
    loop is never quit, which is a wrong assumption.  Also, it overwrites the
    file with different file permissions, which is a privacy issue.  This
    needs to be fixed in GTK.  A solution in Vim would be really complicated.
    (2008 Jul 31)  This appears to be fixed in Vim 7.3.
-   xterm title: The following scenario may occur (esp. when running the Vim
    test script): Vim 1 sets the title to "file1", then restores the title to
    "xterm" with an ESC sequence when exiting.  Vim 2 obtains the old title
    with an X library call, this may result in "file1", because the window
    manager hasn't processed the "xterm" title yet.  Can apparently only be
    worked around with a delay.
-   In a terminal with 'mouse' set such that the mouse is active when entering
    a command line, after executing a shell command that scrolls up the
    display and then pressing ":": Selecting text with the mouse works like
    the display wasn't scrolled.  Vim doesn't know how much the external
    command scrolled up the display.  Use Shift to select text.
-   X windows: When $DISPLAY points to a X server where there is no access
    permission, trying to connect to the X server causes an error message.
    XtOpenDisplay() prints this directly, there is no way to avoid it.
-   X windows: Setting 'guifontset' to an illegal value sometimes crashes Vim.
    This is caused by a fault in a X library function, can't be solved in Vim.
-   Win32 tcl: has("tcl") hangs when the tcl84.dll is from cygwin.
-   Motif: When adding a menu item "Find this &Symbol", the "s" in "this" will
    be underlined, instead of in "Symbol".  Motif doesn't let us specify which
    character gets the highlighting.
-   Moving the cursor removes color in color-xterm.  This is a color-xterm
    problem!  color-xterm ver. 6.1 beta 3 and later work properly.
-   In zsh, "gvim&" changes the terminal settings.  This is a zsh problem.
    (Jennings)
-   Problem with HPterm under X: old contents of window is lost (Cosentino).
-   Amiga: The ":cq" command does not always abort the Manx compiler.  Why?
-   Linux: A file with protection r--rw-rw- is seen readonly for others.  The
    access() function in GNU libc is probably wrong.
-   When doing a CTRL-Z and typing a command for the shell, while Vim is busy
    (e.g. writing a file), the command for the shell is sometimes eaten by Vim,
    because the terminal mode is changed from RAW to CBREAK.
-   An old version of GNU tgoto can't handle the terminfo code for "AF".  The
    "%p1" is interpreted as "%p" and "1", causing color not to be working.
    Fix: Change the "%p1" in the "AF" and "AB" terminfo entries to "%p".
    (Benzinger).
-   When running an external command from the GUI, typeahead is going to that
    program, not to Vim.  It looks like the shell eats the characters, Vim
    can't get back what the external command didn't use.
-   Win32 GUI: Error code from external command not returned in shell_error.
    It appears that cmd.exe and command.com don't return an error code.
-   Win32 GUI: The Toolbar is a bit too high when the flat style is being
    used.  We don't have control over the height of the Toolbar.
-   Win32: All files created on the day of switching from winter to summer
    time cause "changed since editing started" messages.  It goes away when
    the file is written again the next day, or the timezone is adjusted.
    DJGPP version is OK. (Zaimi)  Looks like a problem with the Win32 library.
    Rebooting doesn't help.  Time stamps look OK in directory. (Penn)
    Is this on FAT (stores wall clock time) or NTFS (stores UTS)?
-   Win32, MS-Windows XP: $HOME uses the wrong drive when the user profiles
    are not on the boot disk.  This is caused by a wrong value of $HOMEDRIVE.
    This is a bug in XP, see MSKB article 818134.
-   Win32, MS-Windows: expanding plugin/**/*.vim also picks up
    dir/ctags.vim,v.  This is because the short file name is something like
    "ctags~1.vim" and that matches the pattern.
-   SunOS 5.5.1 with Motif: The file open dialog does not have a horizontal
    scroll bar for the "files" selection.  This is a problem in the Motif
    libraries, get a patch from Sun.
-   Solaris 2.6 with GTK and Perl: gvim crashes when started.  Problem with X
    input method called from GDK code.  Without Perl it doesn't crash.
-   VMS: Vimdiff doesn't work with the VMS diff, because the output looks
    different.  This makes test 47 fail.  Install a Unix-compatible diff.
-   GTK with Gnome: Produces an error message when starting up:
	Gdk-WARNING **: locale not supported by C library
    This is caused by the gnome library gnome_init() setting $LC_CTYPE to
    "en_US".  Not all systems support this locale name, thus causing the
    error.  Hopefully a newer version of GTK/Gnome fixes this problem.
-   GTK 2: With this mapping the hit-enter prompt is _sometimes_ below the
    screen, at other times there is a grey area below the command line:
	:nmap <F11> :if &guioptions=~'m' \| set guioptions-=m \| else \| set guioptions+=m \| endif<cr>
-   GTK: When pasting a selection from Vim to xclipboard gvim crashes with a
    ABRT signal.  Probably an error in the file gdkselection.c, the assert
    always fails when XmbTextListToTextProperty() fails. (Tom Allard)
-   GTK 2: gives an assertion error for every non-builtin icon in the toolbar.
    This is a GTK 2.4.x bug, fixed in GTK 2.4.2. (Thomas de Grenier de Latour)
-   When using an xterm that supports the termresponse feature, and the 't_Co'
    termcap option was wrong when Vim started, it will be corrected when the
    termresponse is received.  Since the number of colors changes, the
    highlighting needs to be initialized again.  This may cause colors defined
    in the vimrc file to be lost.
-   On Windows NT 4.0 the number of files passed to Vim with drag&drop and
    "Edit with Vim" is limited.  The maximum command line length is 255 chars.

---------------------  extensions and improvements ----------------------
						    *extensions-improvements*

Most interesting new features to be added when all bugs have been fixed:
-   Using ":exe edit fname" has escaping problems.  Use ":edit ++(fname)".
    Thus use "++=" to give arguments as expressions, comma-separated as if
    calling a function.
    With options: ":edit ++(['!', '++enc=abc'], ['+/pat'], fname)".
    Alternative: Make a function for Ex commands: cmd_edit().
-   Add COLUMN NUMBERS to ":" commands ":line1,line2[col1,col2]cmd".  Block
    can be selected with CTRL-V.  Allow '$' (end of line) for col2.
    (issue #3292)
-   ECLIPSE plugin.  Problem is: the interface is very complicated.  Need to
    implement part in Java and then connect to Vim.  Some hints from Alexandru
    Roman, 2004 Dec 15.  Should then also work with Oracle Jdeveloper, see JSR
    198 standard http://www.jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=198.
    Eclim does it: http://eclim.sourceforge.net/  (Eric Van Dewoestine)
    Plugin that uses a terminal emulator: http://vimplugin.sf.net
    And another one: http://www.satokar.com/viplugin/index.php
-   STICKY CURSOR: Add a way of scrolling that leaves the cursor where it is.
    Especially when using the scrollbar.  Typing a cursor-movement command
    scrolls back to where the cursor is.
-   Scroll commands by screen line. g CTRL-E and g CTRL-Y ?  Requires the
    first line to be able to start halfway.
8   Add a command to jump to a certain kind of tag.  Allow the user to specify
    values for the optional fields.  E.g., ":tag size type=m".
    Also allow specifying the file and command, so that the result of
    taglist() can be used.
-   X11: Make it possible to run Vim inside a window of another program.
    This can be done with XReparentWindow().  But how exactly?


Documentation:
8   List of Vim runtime directories.  dotvim.txt from Charles Campbell, 2007
    Feb 20.
8   The GUI help should explain the Find and Find/Replace dialogs.  Add a link
    to it from ":promptrepl" and ":promptfind".
8   List of options should mention whether environment variables are expanded
    or not.
8   Extend usr_27.txt a bit. (Adam Seyfarth)
9   Make the Reference Manual more precise.  For each command mention:
    - change to cursor position and curswant
    - if it can be undone (u/CTRL-R) and redone (.)
    - how it works for folded lines
    - how it works with multibyte characters
8   Spread the windows commands over the other files.  For example, ":stag"
    should be with ":tag".  Cross-link with tags to avoid too much double
